README.md, before:

# Briza UI React

[![Storybook](https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/storybookjs/brand@main/badge/badge-storybook.svg)](https://grlnsngh.github.io/briza-ui-react/)
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/briza-ui-react.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/briza-ui-react)

A modern, lightweight React UI component library built with TypeScript and Vite. Features a comprehensive design system with theme support, accessible form components (Button, Input, Select, Checkbox, Radio), and extensive customization options.

## Installation

```bash
npm install briza-ui-react
```

## Quick Start

```tsx
import {
  ThemeProvider,
  Button,
  Input,
  Select,
  Checkbox,
  Radio,
} from "briza-ui-react";

function App() {
  return (
    <ThemeProvider>
      <div
        style={{
          display: "flex",
          flexDirection: "column",
          gap: "1rem",
          maxWidth: "400px",
        }}
      >
        <Button color="primary">Primary Button</Button>

        <Input label="Email" placeholder="Enter your email" />

        <Select
          label="Choose an option"
          options={[
            { value: "option1", label: "Option 1" },
            { value: "option2", label: "Option 2" },
            { value: "option3", label: "Option 3" },
          ]}
        />

        <Checkbox label="I agree to the terms" />

        <Radio name="choice" label="Option A" value="a" />
        <Radio name="choice" label="Option B" value="b" />
      </div>
    </ThemeProvider>
  );
}
```

## Theme System

Briza UI includes a comprehensive theme system with support for light/dark modes, system preference detection, and custom themes.

### ThemeProvider

Wrap your application with `ThemeProvider` to enable theme support:

```tsx
import { ThemeProvider, useTheme } from "briza-ui-react";

function App() {
  return (
    <ThemeProvider
      defaultMode="system" // "light" | "dark" | "system"
      enablePersistence={true} // Save theme preference
      enableCSSVariables={true} // Inject CSS variables
    >
      <YourApp />
    </ThemeProvider>
  );
}
```

### useTheme Hook

Use the `useTheme` hook to access and control the theme:

```tsx
function ThemeToggle() {
  const { mode, setMode, toggleMode, isDark } = useTheme();

  return (
    <div>
      <p>Current mode: {mode}</p>
      <button onClick={toggleMode}>
        Switch to {isDark ? "Light" : "Dark"} Mode
      </button>
      <button onClick={() => setMode("system")}>Use System Preference</button>
    </div>
  );
}
```

### Design Tokens

Access design tokens directly for custom styling:

```tsx
import { colors, spacing, typography, radius } from "briza-ui-react";

const customStyles = {
  backgroundColor: colors.primary.DEFAULT,
  color: colors.primary.foreground,
  padding: `${spacing[2]} ${spacing[4]}`,
  borderRadius: radius.md,
  fontSize: typography.fontSize.base,
};
```

## Components

### Button

```tsx
<Button>Default Button</Button>
<Button color="primary">Primary Button</Button>
<Button variant="faded" color="secondary">Faded Button</Button>
```

### Input

```tsx
<Input label="Email" placeholder="Enter your email" />
<Input label="Password" type="password" placeholder="Enter password" />
```

### Select

```tsx
<Select
  label="Choose an option"
  options={[
    { value: "option1", label: "Option 1" },
    { value: "option2", label: "Option 2" },
    { value: "option3", label: "Option 3" },
  ]}
/>
```

### Checkbox

```tsx
<Checkbox label="I agree to the terms" />
<Checkbox label="Subscribe to newsletter" defaultChecked />
```

### Radio

```tsx
<Radio name="choice" label="Option A" value="a" />
<Radio name="choice" label="Option B" value="b" />
```

### Pagination

```tsx
<Pagination
  totalPages={10}
  currentPage={page}
  onPageChange={setPage}
  showFirstLast
  showItemsPerPage
  totalItems={100}
  itemsPerPage={10}
/>
```

## Features

- 🚀 Built with modern React 18+ and TypeScript
- 🎨 **Theme System**: Complete light/dark mode support with system preference detection
- 🌓 **ThemeProvider**: Context-based theme management with localStorage persistence
- 🎯 **Design Tokens**: Comprehensive design system with colors, typography, spacing, and more
- 📦 Tree-shakable for optimal bundle size
- 🧪 Tested with Vitest and Playwright
- 📖 Full TypeScript support with comprehensive type definitions
- ♿ Accessible components following WCAG 2.1 AA guidelines
- 🎨 CSS Variables for dynamic theming
- ⚡ Zero dependencies (only React and React DOM as peers)
- 📱 Responsive and mobile-friendly
- 🎭 Storybook documentation with interactive examples
- 🧩 **Form Components**: Button, Input, Select, Checkbox, Radio with validation states
- 📄 **Navigation Components**: Pagination, Breadcrumb, Tabs with keyboard support
- 🔧 **Highly Customizable**: Multiple variants, sizes, colors, and states for all components

## Development

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Run Storybook for development and documentation
npm run storybook

# Build for production
npm run build

# Run tests
npm run test

# Publish beta version
npm run publish-beta

# Publish latest version
npm run publish-latest
```

## Project Structure

```
src/
├── components/
│   ├── Button/              # Button component with variants, sizes, loading states
│   │   ├── Button.tsx       # Main component logic
│   │   ├── Button.stories.tsx # Storybook stories
│   │   ├── Button.test.tsx  # Unit tests
│   │   ├── button.module.css # Component styles
│   │   └── index.ts         # Component exports
│   ├── Input/               # Input component with validation and password toggle
│   │   ├── Input.tsx        # Main component logic
│   │   ├── Input.stories.tsx # Storybook stories
│   │   ├── Input.test.tsx   # Unit tests
│   │   ├── input.module.css # Component styles
│   │   ├── icons.tsx        # Icon components for password toggle
│   │   └── index.ts         # Component exports
│   ├── Select/              # Select dropdown with search and validation
│   │   ├── Select.tsx       # Main component logic
│   │   ├── Select.stories.tsx # Storybook stories
│   │   ├── Select.test.tsx  # Unit tests
│   │   ├── select.module.css # Component styles
│   │   └── index.ts         # Component exports
│   ├── Checkbox/            # Checkbox component with group support
│   │   ├── Checkbox.tsx     # Main component logic
│   │   ├── Checkbox.stories.tsx # Storybook stories
│   │   ├── Checkbox.test.tsx # Unit tests
│   │   ├── checkbox.module.css # Component styles
│   │   └── index.ts         # Component exports
│   ├── Radio/               # Radio component with group support
│   │   ├── Radio.tsx        # Main component logic
│   │   ├── Radio.stories.tsx # Storybook stories
│   │   ├── Radio.test.tsx   # Unit tests
│   │   ├── radio.module.css # Component styles
│   │   └── index.ts         # Component exports
│   ├── DesignSystem/        # Design system documentation and examples
│   │   ├── *.stories.tsx    # Storybook stories for design tokens
│   │   └── shared/          # Shared utilities for design system
│   └── index.ts             # Main components export
├── hooks/                   # Custom hooks
├── theme/                   # Theme system with provider and tokens
│   ├── ThemeProvider.tsx    # Theme context provider
│   ├── useTheme.ts          # Theme hook
│   ├── tokens.ts            # Design tokens (colors, spacing, etc.)
│   ├── types.ts             # Theme type definitions
│   ├── utils.ts             # Theme utilities
│   ├── variables.css        # CSS variables for theming
│   └── index.ts             # Theme exports
├── types/                   # Shared TypeScript types
├── utils/                   # Utility functions and test helpers
├── index.css                # Global styles and CSS variables
├── index.ts                 # Main library exports
├── test-setup.ts            # Test configuration
└── vite-env.d.ts            # TypeScript declarations
```

## Theming

The library uses CSS variables for easy customization. You can override these variables to match your design system:

```css
:root {
  --color-primary: #your-primary-color;
  --color-primary-hover: #your-primary-hover-color;
  --color-primary-foreground: #your-primary-text-color;
  /* ... other variables */
}
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request. The project follows a component-co-location pattern where each component lives in its own directory with all related files (component, styles, stories, tests).

## Roadmap

- [x] **Theme System** - Complete dark/light mode support ✅
- [x] **ThemeProvider** - Context-based theme management ✅
- [x] **Design Tokens** - Comprehensive design system ✅
- [x] **Form Components** - Input, Select, Checkbox, Radio with validation ✅
- [x] **Button Component** - Multiple variants, sizes, and states ✅
- [x] **Pagination Component** - Full-featured with keyboard navigation ✅
- [x] **Modal Component** - Accessible dialog with portal rendering ✅
- [x] **Toast/Notification System** - Toast notifications with queue management ✅
- [x] **Data Table Component** - Sortable, selectable table with pagination ✅
- [x] **Breadcrumb Component** - Navigation breadcrumbs with overflow handling ✅
- [x] **Tabs Component** - Tabbed interface with multiple orientations ✅
- [x] **Progress Component** - Progress bars and circular indicators ✅
- [x] **Spinner Component** - Loading spinners with various styles ✅
- [ ] DatePicker/Calendar component
- [ ] Dropdown/Menu component
- [ ] Tooltip component
- [ ] Accordion component
- [ ] Animation system with theme-aware transitions
- [ ] Advanced theme customization tools

## License

MIT © [Gurleen Singh](https://github.com/grlnsngh)

Commit message:

feat: enhance package.json with type definitions and sideEffects, add new exports for components and hooks
refactor: rename component exports to improve memoization in Accordion, Autocomplete, Avatar, AvatarGroup, Breadcrumb, Button, Card, Checkbox, DatePicker, FileUpload, FormField, Input, Modal, Pagination, Progress, Radio, Select, Skeleton, Slider, Spinner, Table, Tabs, Toast

build: add size-limit and rollup-plugin-visualizer for bundle analysis, update vite.config.ts for better build optimizations and chunk size warnings

README.md, after:

# Briza UI React

[![Storybook](https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/storybookjs/brand@main/badge/badge-storybook.svg)](https://grlnsngh.github.io/briza-ui-react/)
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/briza-ui-react.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/briza-ui-react)

A modern, lightweight React UI component library built with TypeScript and Vite. Features a comprehensive design system with theme support, accessible form components (Button, Input, Select, Checkbox, Radio), and extensive customization options.

## Installation

```bash
npm install briza-ui-react
```

## Quick Start

```tsx
import {
  ThemeProvider,
  Button,
  Input,
  Select,
  Checkbox,
  Radio,
} from "briza-ui-react";

function App() {
  return (
    <ThemeProvider>
      <div
        style={{
          display: "flex",
          flexDirection: "column",
          gap: "1rem",
          maxWidth: "400px",
        }}
      >
        <Button color="primary">Primary Button</Button>

        <Input label="Email" placeholder="Enter your email" />

        <Select
          label="Choose an option"
          options={[
            { value: "option1", label: "Option 1" },
            { value: "option2", label: "Option 2" },
            { value: "option3", label: "Option 3" },
          ]}
        />

        <Checkbox label="I agree to the terms" />

        <Radio name="choice" label="Option A" value="a" />
        <Radio name="choice" label="Option B" value="b" />
      </div>
    </ThemeProvider>
  );
}
```

## Theme System

Briza UI includes a comprehensive theme system with support for light/dark modes, system preference detection, and custom themes.

### ThemeProvider

Wrap your application with `ThemeProvider` to enable theme support:

```tsx
import { ThemeProvider, useTheme } from "briza-ui-react";

function App() {
  return (
    <ThemeProvider
      defaultMode="system" // "light" | "dark" | "system"
      enablePersistence={true} // Save theme preference
      enableCSSVariables={true} // Inject CSS variables
    >
      <YourApp />
    </ThemeProvider>
  );
}
```

### useTheme Hook

Use the `useTheme` hook to access and control the theme:

```tsx
function ThemeToggle() {
  const { mode, setMode, toggleMode, isDark } = useTheme();

  return (
    <div>
      <p>Current mode: {mode}</p>
      <button onClick={toggleMode}>
        Switch to {isDark ? "Light" : "Dark"} Mode
      </button>
      <button onClick={() => setMode("system")}>Use System Preference</button>
    </div>
  );
}
```

### Design Tokens

Access design tokens directly for custom styling:

```tsx
import { colors, spacing, typography, radius } from "briza-ui-react";

const customStyles = {
  backgroundColor: colors.primary.DEFAULT,
  color: colors.primary.foreground,
  padding: `${spacing[2]} ${spacing[4]}`,
  borderRadius: radius.md,
  fontSize: typography.fontSize.base,
};
```

## Components

### Button

```tsx
<Button>Default Button</Button>
<Button color="primary">Primary Button</Button>
<Button variant="faded" color="secondary">Faded Button</Button>
```

### Input

```tsx
<Input label="Email" placeholder="Enter your email" />
<Input label="Password" type="password" placeholder="Enter password" />
```

### Select

```tsx
<Select
  label="Choose an option"
  options={[
    { value: "option1", label: "Option 1" },
    { value: "option2", label: "Option 2" },
    { value: "option3", label: "Option 3" },
  ]}
/>
```

### Checkbox

```tsx
<Checkbox label="I agree to the terms" />
<Checkbox label="Subscribe to newsletter" defaultChecked />
```

### Radio

```tsx
<Radio name="choice" label="Option A" value="a" />
<Radio name="choice" label="Option B" value="b" />
```

### Pagination

```tsx
<Pagination
  totalPages={10}
  currentPage={page}
  onPageChange={setPage}
  showFirstLast
  showItemsPerPage
  totalItems={100}
  itemsPerPage={10}
/>
```

## Features

- 🚀 Built with modern React 18+ and TypeScript
- 🎨 **Theme System**: Complete light/dark mode support with system preference detection
- 🌓 **ThemeProvider**: Context-based theme management with localStorage persistence
- 🎯 **Design Tokens**: Comprehensive design system with colors, typography, spacing, and more
- 📦 Tree-shakable for optimal bundle size
- 🧪 Tested with Vitest and Playwright
- 📖 Full TypeScript support with comprehensive type definitions
- ♿ Accessible components following WCAG 2.1 AA guidelines
- 🎨 CSS Variables for dynamic theming
- ⚡ Zero dependencies (only React and React DOM as peers)
- 📱 Responsive and mobile-friendly
- 🎭 Storybook documentation with interactive examples
- 🧩 **Form Components**: Button, Input, Select, Checkbox, Radio with validation states
- 📄 **Navigation Components**: Pagination, Breadcrumb, Tabs with keyboard support
- 🔧 **Highly Customizable**: Multiple variants, sizes, colors, and states for all components

## Development

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Run Storybook for development and documentation
npm run storybook

# Build for production
npm run build

# Run tests
npm run test

# Publish beta version
npm run publish-beta

# Publish latest version
npm run publish-latest
```

## Project Structure

```
src/
├── components/
│   ├── Button/              # Button component with variants, sizes, loading states
│   │   ├── Button.tsx       # Main component logic
│   │   ├── Button.stories.tsx # Storybook stories
│   │   ├── Button.test.tsx  # Unit tests
│   │   ├── button.module.css # Component styles
│   │   └── index.ts         # Component exports
│   ├── Input/               # Input component with validation and password toggle
│   │   ├── Input.tsx        # Main component logic
│   │   ├── Input.stories.tsx # Storybook stories
│   │   ├── Input.test.tsx   # Unit tests
│   │   ├── input.module.css # Component styles
│   │   ├── icons.tsx        # Icon components for password toggle
│   │   └── index.ts         # Component exports
│   ├── Select/              # Select dropdown with search and validation
│   │   ├── Select.tsx       # Main component logic
│   │   ├── Select.stories.tsx # Storybook stories
│   │   ├── Select.test.tsx  # Unit tests
│   │   ├── select.module.css # Component styles
│   │   └── index.ts         # Component exports
│   ├── Checkbox/            # Checkbox component with group support
│   │   ├── Checkbox.tsx     # Main component logic
│   │   ├── Checkbox.stories.tsx # Storybook stories
│   │   ├── Checkbox.test.tsx # Unit tests
│   │   ├── checkbox.module.css # Component styles
│   │   └── index.ts         # Component exports
│   ├── Radio/               # Radio component with group support
│   │   ├── Radio.tsx        # Main component logic
│   │   ├── Radio.stories.tsx # Storybook stories
│   │   ├── Radio.test.tsx   # Unit tests
│   │   ├── radio.module.css # Component styles
│   │   └── index.ts         # Component exports
│   ├── DesignSystem/        # Design system documentation and examples
│   │   ├── *.stories.tsx    # Storybook stories for design tokens
│   │   └── shared/          # Shared utilities for design system
│   └── index.ts             # Main components export
├── hooks/                   # Custom hooks
├── theme/                   # Theme system with provider and tokens
│   ├── ThemeProvider.tsx    # Theme context provider
│   ├── useTheme.ts          # Theme hook
│   ├── tokens.ts            # Design tokens (colors, spacing, etc.)
│   ├── types.ts             # Theme type definitions
│   ├── utils.ts             # Theme utilities
│   ├── variables.css        # CSS variables for theming
│   └── index.ts             # Theme exports
├── types/                   # Shared TypeScript types
├── utils/                   # Utility functions and test helpers
├── index.css                # Global styles and CSS variables
├── index.ts                 # Main library exports
├── test-setup.ts            # Test configuration
└── vite-env.d.ts            # TypeScript declarations
```

## Theming

The library uses CSS variables for easy customization. You can override these variables to match your design system:

```css
:root {
  --color-primary: #your-primary-color;
  --color-primary-hover: #your-primary-hover-color;
  --color-primary-foreground: #your-primary-text-color;
  /* ... other variables */
}
```

## Bundle Size & Tree-Shaking

Briza UI is fully optimized for tree-shaking and modern bundlers. Import only what you need:

```tsx
// ✅ Tree-shakeable - Only Button is included in your bundle
import { Button } from "briza-ui-react";

// ✅ Also tree-shakeable - Multiple named imports
import { Button, Input, Card } from "briza-ui-react";
```

### Bundle Size Metrics

| Component    | Size (gzipped) |
| ------------ | -------------- |
| Button       | ~5 KB          |
| Input        | ~10 KB         |
| Card         | ~5 KB          |
| Modal        | ~10 KB         |
| Table        | ~15 KB         |
| Full Library | ~150 KB        |

All components are wrapped with `React.memo` for optimal performance and to prevent unnecessary re-renders.

**📖 For detailed optimization strategies, see [Bundle Optimization Guide](./docs/BUNDLE_OPTIMIZATION.md)**

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request. The project follows a component-co-location pattern where each component lives in its own directory with all related files (component, styles, stories, tests).

## Roadmap

- [x] **Theme System** - Complete dark/light mode support ✅
- [x] **ThemeProvider** - Context-based theme management ✅
- [x] **Design Tokens** - Comprehensive design system ✅
- [x] **Form Components** - Input, Select, Checkbox, Radio with validation ✅
- [x] **Button Component** - Multiple variants, sizes, and states ✅
- [x] **Pagination Component** - Full-featured with keyboard navigation ✅
- [x] **Modal Component** - Accessible dialog with portal rendering ✅
- [x] **Toast/Notification System** - Toast notifications with queue management ✅
- [x] **Data Table Component** - Sortable, selectable table with pagination ✅
- [x] **Breadcrumb Component** - Navigation breadcrumbs with overflow handling ✅
- [x] **Tabs Component** - Tabbed interface with multiple orientations ✅
- [x] **Progress Component** - Progress bars and circular indicators ✅
- [x] **Spinner Component** - Loading spinners with various styles ✅
- [ ] DatePicker/Calendar component
- [ ] Dropdown/Menu component
- [ ] Tooltip component
- [ ] Accordion component
- [ ] Animation system with theme-aware transitions
- [ ] Advanced theme customization tools

## License

MIT © [Gurleen Singh](https://github.com/grlnsngh)
